yo what's up this video is going to
contain some reflections on the problem
of people saying it's not my problem
which is something you're going to deal
with again and again in making the case
for any form of political activism any
form of social movement strolling for
any kind of positive change obviously
here I have a special interest in
veganism in ecology but this video also
has some non-random reflections on my
life here in Chiang Mai Thailand I'm
here for just a few days on my way from
Canada up to China for those who don't
know don't watch my channel I just
mentioned that in passing when I first
started talking about Thailand on
youtube I think over 1 year ago I was
addressing the kind of strange mix of
myths hype and over-the-top expectations
the people had for this city for Chiang
Mai Thailand and you know contrasting it
to my own experience in the region now
again I don't want to launch into an
autobiography here but I have diverse
experience doing historical research
humanitarian research language research
living working and learning in this part
of Asia including Chiang Mai but all of
northern Thailand Cambodia Laos you nan
I have some comparative sense of what
life is like in different places in the
region and also I have a sense of the
kind of pressing ecological moral and
political concerns that i would hope my
fellow vegans would at least take some
passing interest in so i talked about
this as i said some like a year ago i
got i got a lot of fan mail and i got a
little bit of hate mail for those videos
he does be surprised I mean there was a
lot of positive reactions was
appreciative reaction to what I had to
say about Thailand in the past including
from people who had no interest in
veganism who had no prior familiarity
with my channel but who just realized i
was offering something real some kind of
honest contribution and contrasting you
know some of the overhyped expectations
of tourists and people who are on a
zeiss a permanent vacation
to you know what you can really expect
in reality now one of the messages i got
that was maybe a closer to two hate mail
as I recall was from an old man here I
presume was vegan I don't really know
but an old man who was in the cycling
scene and I just mentioned earlier there
are plenty of athletes here who are not
vegan there are plenty of people here on
permanent vacation were not vegan you
know there every combination as possible
uh but this guy wrote to me and he was
the one person who really took the
diametric opposite view to mine because
you know a lot of people react and say
well i agree with you up to a point but
on the other hand life is just about
having fun so why should we worry about
poverty prostitution the fact that the
democratic government was replaced with
the military dictatorship the fact that
the city is literally falling to pieces
here in Chiang Mai that you know like
the sidewalk is crumbling under your
feet that every time it rains even in
the wealthiest neighborhood the street
is underwater due to bed infrastructure
bad public planning etc you know the
failures of good government are very
obvious if you're here and you have your
eyes open you know and why beyond that
of course why should we care about
ecology deforestation malaria dengue
fever or anything else that reminds you
social reality why should we be
concerned about you know the fate of the
elephant's the wild elephants going
extinct the wild tiger is going to take
anything that might spark your interest
as a vegan are just as an intelligent
human being living in this part of the
world there's one guy he was the one guy
who really wrote to me a hundred eighty
degrees opposite where he said no he
didn't accept the notion that people
should feel any responsibility for
anything here he felt the people here
really should just buy a bicycle get on
strava Travis a website for exercise
enthusiasts and live this life of
self-indulgence of permanent vacation
happy that that was really all there was
to it and I remember he said even though
it was just kind of one sense it stuck
with me he said and so what if the local
people are are living in poverty that's
not our problem it's not our fault the
darn property so therefore
oh forget about it now I mean my own
background in economics and political
science shapes the way I see these
things yeah both in a shallow sense and
in a profound sense I was talking to one
of my fellow vegans here online and he
was remarking on how cheap Chiang Mai
was now I I don't think Chiang Mai is
cheap in several different senses under
several different headings I don't think
it's cheap compared to other cities with
in Thailand for example I don't think
it's cheap compared to other cities in
Southeast Asia but also I'm thinking
about the fact that it is not cheap for
local people relative to local wages so
you know I pointed out to him again it's
not a it's not an angry disagreement or
something it's just a different
perspective it's just we just disagree
and I pointed out to him look you know
the minimum wage in london england is
sorry yeah in London specifically in the
city of london england is over nine
pounds sterling per hour i think that
works out to about 450 thai baht at the
moment so 450 thai baht per hour here in
thailand for local people the minute the
minimum wage is about 300 baht per day
not per hour per day so you know when
trying to claim that life here is cheap
you know i have a different framework a
different set of concerns expectations
etc and you know the word concern is
actually the main thing i want to sell
to you if the audience today within
canada there are people born and raised
in canada who look at you know poverty
or other social problems and say this is
not my fault this is not my problem
therefore i'm just going to live a life
of self-indulgence and you can look at
people who live in toronto and look at
the water pollution and even though they
are literally drinking the polluted
water they say this is not my fault this
is not my problem even though they flush
the toilet like everyone else they you
know Trent water out of the tap me in
many ways you know it literally
physically chemically scientifically it
is both your fault and it is your
problem but nevertheless you know even
with
than like water pollution it's very
difficult to deal with the attitude this
is not my fault this is not my problem
and in other cases you can say genuinely
you can't you have to agree with people
you know if you are basically a tourist
in Thailand it's true poverty here
social problems here ecology here is not
your fault and it's not your problem but
it could be your concern and I would say
sincerely it should be your concern you
you can't be concerned about everything
everywhere you know I mean you can't uh
you know if you if you are concerned
with and engage with one place then by
definition you got not engage another
four years and years I lived out here so
I was very concerned with human rights
issues to use a broad term human rights
issues in Thailand Laos and Cambodia I
was not concerned with human rights
issues in Afghanistan or Iraq now
obviously during the same period of
history there were enormous momentous
events in Afghanistan and Iraq of
political and otherwise um I could have
devoted my life to that area i could
have consumed myself with being
concerned with and trying to make a
positive difference of there I wasn't
the combination of humanitarian work you
know activism and just research that I
wanted to do scholarship they wanted to
do was located here and as I've
mentioned you guys before when that
ended I wanted to continue with the same
kind of life of engagement of being
politically concerned politically active
but to switch theaters entirely from
working on Southeast Asia to working on
the indigenous people within Canada boy
that one is really depressing if you
talk to white people in Canada and you
say look you know you're living next
door to a humanitarian disaster there's
an indigenous peoples community
indigenous peoples reservation you know
where the first nations are living in
poverty and they have no drinking water
and they have no access to medicine they
have you know third world conditions we
had a scandal of that kind recently in
Canada the Attawapiskat scandal which
you know attawapiskat his name of a town
where they had these kind of worse than
third world conditions and people
literally living in tents and unlike
here in Southeast Asia the climate is
way too cold for people to survive the
winter intense and you know tremendous
breakdown of you know both private
sector and public sector for that
community and of course there are white
people who will respond to that by
saying it's not my fault and it's not my
problem within Canada so you know the
ethical arguments we make whether it's
about your drinking water whether it's
about your fellow citizens in your own
country or if it's about citizens in a
far-off distant land or in a country you
have chosen to move to as a long-term
tourists as a resident I think the main
thing where we're having to do is shift
from a mindset of fault to a mindset of
positive concern I think it is childish
to try to motivate someone to do the
right thing by saying this is your fault
this is your fault therefore this is
your problem therefore you should be
motivated to learn about it and to do
something about it I think that's a
schoolyard way of thinking and it stems
from the childhood experience most of us
have if you're a child and you drop
something on the floor your parents will
tell you you have to clean it up because
it's your fault it's the fault based
logic it is both natural and is to some
extent inculcated into us at an early
age I think the mature and adult
attitude instead is to say you know not
there's no question of whether or not
this is my fault that's irrelevant like
it is if you're a white person who
leaves the United States of America it
is actually irrelevant whether or not
your ancestors owned slaves okay we're
all in it together if you're living in
America today it doesn't matter if your
grandparents migrated to America from
Lithuania and therefore you never owned
slaves you were never part of that
history you can't say the condition of
black people is not my fault that is not
my problem it's completely irrelevant
right the reality of for instance the
the Tamir rice shooting the police
brutality the questions about the status
of black people in that states america
it's all of our concern it's all of our
problem if we are Americans living in
America
I'm not I'm a Canadian living in
couldn't Ming China but hey you know uh
but the question is instead should this
be your concern and then what can you do
with that concern and look you know we
all like to play this game of judgey not
lest you be judged don't be judgemental
don't be a jerk if if you're not
concerned if you're refusing to take an
interest that does reflect on you it
does reflect badly on you and there is a
moral judgment involved if you're
someone who's chosen to live here in
Chiang Mai Thailand for a year or two
years or even for six months and you
have no concern No engage in these
issues I think you do have to ask
yourself why and I think I'm in the
right to ask you you know conversation
between two people I have right to ask
you why now maybe there is a good reason
maybe you're a scientist researching
cancer and all your time and energy goes
into trying to find the cure for cancer
I can sympathize I really can't maybe
you know you're a veteran of the Iraq
war and even though you retired to
Thailand you spend all your time and
energy keeping up with events in Iraq
reading about writing about and maybe
being involved with some charity
connected to things happening right I
completely sympathize situations like
that happen but of course what we're
really dealing with here in Chiang Mai
2016 instead are several different
communities of people who have moved
here to live lives with no sense of
responsibility with no sense of
engagement and you know they not only
they of course they don't learn the Thai
language but they don't open a newspaper
they don't even have an interest in the
fact that a democratic government has
been replaced by a dictatorship let
alone you know the other things that
I've mentioned or you know maybe you
have to walk halfway down the block to
take a look at the conditions of
elephants or Tigers line but there's so
much here that obviously should be
leaping out at vegans and they should be
taking understand so I'm that's funny to
me part of the fundamental challenge of
veganism
is pulling back the veil that obscures
the reality of you know mass
manufactured meat of the industrial
production of animal products of saying
to people look I want you to care enough
till to see I want you to see what's
unseen because you know there's a
there's a veil this thin that's hiding
from you you know the difference between
the neatly packaged styrofoam container
of beef sold as a final product and the
unbelievable cycle of suffering waste
and pollution that comes before that you
know you know the antiseptic cleanliness
of a leather jacket hanging in a shop or
even a wool sweater you know it looks
good it smells good it doesn't seem like
you're buying something immoral or
horrifying and the you know unbelievable
process and you know including the
ecologic consequence of that process
just so you can wear a jacket that's
made at a leather instead of a jacket
made out of polyester some mouse um
you're saying to people again and again
I want you to care I want you to look
harder I want you to see something
that's slightly unseen so for me I think
it's inevitable that we as vegans and
just we as human beings ask one another
to be concerned I've talked to vegans
who've lived here and they've never seen
the poverty and they don't see it
because they're not looking I talked to
a couple vegans who lived here who said
they never saw the prostitution lived in
Chiang Mai never saw the prostitution
you must have your head in the sand I
have no idea i mean you know hey look I
know I'm gorgeous but the prostitutes
will come out in the street and chase
you down if you're a good-looking man
you know it's not only is it not hidden
it'll it'll come up and declare itself
to you with reality prostitution in a
city like this uh you know you know
other problems you have to look for
harder I've lived in small villages in
Laos where deforestation and drug
addiction were huge problems and yet you
would meet foreigners you'd meet white
Westerners who completely refuse to
admit that any such problem existed
there
and you would have to say to them yeah I
even met you know it's a longer story I
won't include here I met white people
who refuse to admit there was any
malnutrition there was any starvation or
food shortage in areas of Laos where I I
knew for a fact there was from research
and from my own humanitarian work at my
engagement that you know there was
regular seasonal starvation food
shortage that we were dealing with and
that the population that was dependent
on handouts and so on and you'd meet
white people would say you completely
sell from no no you know no such
problems this year well you know if you
don't know how to look you know the drug
addicts aren't going to come up to you
and tell you their life story the people
dying of AIDS I've done AIDS research
hiv/aids research you know people dying
of AIDS are not normally walking down
the street holding a billboard saying I
have AIDS I want your attention
obviously they're hidden away whether
it's in a in a hut or in a hospital bed
you know finding out about about AIDS
even in the middle of an epidemic
because in Cambodia we did have an
epidemic it's it's now in the past tense
but you know AIDS and AIDS orphans and
AIDS orphan looks the same as any other
kid in a playground if you walk past a
playground you can't just see how many
kids have had their lives devastated by
their parents dying of AIDS you gotta
look you know and no it's not your fault
it's not your problem but it should be
your concern and if it's not as I say
I've got to ask you why because for me
is a vegan everyday with my friends my
family etc when they put on that leather
jacket it's the same thing I've got to
ask them to see what's unseen and I've
got to ask them why